0. This branch is Linux specific. It is a work in progress to make this code
   work on GNU/Linux.

   As of now, the code is building successfully on Ubuntu 12.10.

   Dependencies: zlib, libarchive-dev, libbsd-dev, gperf
   Also, you should download, build and install mdocml (from mdocml.bsd.lv).
   The makefile is not very sophisticated, it assumes mandoc is installed in
   its standard location (/usr/local/mandoc).

   The default location of the man database is /var/man.db and therefore you
   should run makemandb using sudo.

   apropos is core dumping sometimes, this might be due to the ad-hoc hash
   table implementation using gperf or some other memory leaks. This needs
   further investigation and work.

   run make -f Makefile.linux to build.
0. Linux Support:
    Recently I started work on porting this code to GNU/Linux. I have
    been successfully able to build it on Ubuntu 12.04/12.10 and the code
    is available in the linux branch of this repository. 

1. INTRODUCTION
    Unix systems have had a culture and one of the main reasons behind
    the long standing success of Unix has been to follow this culture
    and philosophy over the years. Part of this culture and philosophy
    is to provide documentation for each component of the Operating
    System, whether it is a command line utility, a system call, a
    library function, a configuration file or anything that should be
    documented to make the life of the end user easier. This documentation
    has been primarly shipped in the form of Manual pages
    (man pages in short), which can be easily accessed using the 'man'
    command.  A couple of utilities are also provided to search the
    documentation easily. apropos(1) can be used to search for man
    pages. How apropos(1) works is very simple. The name section of
    the man pages has been indexed in a file (typically named whatis.db)
    and apropos(1) performs search on this file for the keywords
    specified by the user.

    While apropos(1) was designed keeping in mind the resources (both
    hardware and software) available during the early days, but things
    have changed drastically over the time. Now we have the resources
    available and in the Google era it behooves us to rethink the design
    and implementation of apropos(1). It is now possible to implement
    apropos(1) in a better manner so as to allow more extensive and
    flexible searches and that too over the complete content of the
    man pages rather than limiting it to the name section. More often
    than not we are not sure of the exact keywords to search for and
    apropos(1) does not give us the right results (or no results at all)
    in which case we turn to Google.

    The idea behind this project is to mend this problem by reimplementing
    apropos(1) to enable full text search capabilities and in the
    process enhancing and modifying other man utilities as required.
    We have decided to use the FTS engine of Sqlite [1] for this purpose.

2. REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING & RUNNING:
    The project has been developed on NetBSD so I can only claim that it works
    well on a NetBSD system (that too the current development snapshot). Though 
    it should be possible to build it and run on other BSD systems with little 
    or no changes. 
    
    Following are the requirements for building and running it on NetBSD:
    2.1 -CURRENT version of NetBSD (or at least man pages from -CURRENT)
    2.2 mdocml
    
    While for other BSDs like FreeBSD or DragonFlyBSD the requirements should be 
    about same. Though I made a patch to man.c for adding a new option 'p' to 
    man(1) which would print the search path for man pages in a new line separated 
    format on stdout. That is required for building the Full Text Search Index 
    using makemandb. And of course the Makefile might require some modifications.

    GNU/Linux: Please checkout the linux branch for using this code on Linux.
    Currently, it is still a work in progress.
    
    
3. USING:
    There are two command line utilities 'makemandb' and 'apropos'. You would 
    first need to build the Full Text Search (FTS) Index using makemandb(1) and then 
    you can use apropos(1) (the one provided by this project) to perform searches.
    
    3.1 makemandb: Simply running makemandb will build the FTS index and tell you 
        the number of pages indexed. Some of the pages might not get indexed on 
        the way which will be indicated by error messages on the screen but 
        nothing to worry about that.
        
    NOTE: The default behavior of makemandb is incremental updation. That is to 
        say it will try to add only those pages to the index which it did not 
        have previously and also it will remove those pages from the index which 
        are no more on the file system. Of course if there is no existing index 
        it will build it from scratch.
        
        makemandb supports following options:
        
        [-f]: The option 'f' will tell makemandb(1) to prune the existing index
        (if there exists one) and rebuild the database from scratch.
        
        [-l]: The option 'l' will tell makemand(1) to limit the indexing to only 
        the NAME section of the man pages. This option can be used to mimic the 
        behavior of the "classical apropos" although with improved search 
        capabilities. This option might be useful if you want to save few MB of 
        disk space.
        
        [-o]: The option  'o' is for optimizing the index. makemand(1) will try 
        to optimize the FTS index for faster search performance and also it will 
        optimize the storage of the data to optimize disk space usage.
        
    3.2 apropos: Once you have built the database you can fire apropos(1) and 
        pass a query to do a search. For example:
        $apropos "add a new user"
        
        apropos supports following options:
        
        [-1234569]: You can pass section numbers as options to apropos which 
        will make apropos to search only within the specified set of sections.
        
        [-p]: By default apropos(1) will display the top 10 ranked results on 
        stdout. So if you would like to see more results then use 'p'. It will 
        allow apropos(1) to display all the results and also it will pipe the 
        results to a pager (more(1)).

4. OTHER DELIVERABLES:
    Besides the two command line tools, I have also developed a very small 
    library to allow and build a search application on top of the FTS index built 
    by makemandb. It has following public functions:
    
    4.1 init_db(): To initialize a connection to the database.
    
    4.2 run_query(): To run a query as entered by the user and process the rows 
    obtained in a callback function (apropos.c uses it).
    
    4.3 run_query_html(): Similar to run_query() but it formats the results 
    obtained in the form of an HTML fragment. This can be used to build a CGI 
    application to do searches from a browser.
    
    4.4 run_query_pager(): Similar to run_query_html but it formats the results 
    so that the matching text appears highlighted when piped to a pager.
    apropos.c uses it when the -p option is specified.
    
    4.5 close_db(): To close the database connection and release any resources.
    
For more detailed documentation you can read up the man pages of the individual 
components.
